# Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF)

CSRF makes an authenticated victim carry out an action unintentionally. A CSRF attack works because browser requests automatically include all cookies including session cookies. Therefore, if the user is authenticated to the site, the site cannot distinguish between legitimate authorized requests and forged authenticated requests. 

**Example:**

Consider you a website for a bank (B.com). It allows users to initatie a HTTP request to transfer money from their account. If this request is vulnerable to CSRF, an attacker can initiate the same request from his own website (A.com) instead of the bank's website.

**Conditions to work?**

1. Actionable and important request (not login/logout/change language/change theme).
2. Request uses a cookie based session handling.
3. The request does not have an unpredictcable parameter.

**Why does this work?**

1. User authenticates to B.com.
2. B.com stores its cookies in user's browser.
3. When user visits A.com, it initiates a request to B.com/transfer in the background.
4. When the browser receives this request, it will check if it has cookies for B.com (which it will since the user is authenticated).
5. The browser makes the request to B.com/transfer along with its cookies.
6. B.com on receiving the request with its cookies, executes the action.

**How to prevent?**

1. PRIMARY: **CSRF tokens** - An unpredictable parameter that is tied to a user session is validated before the action is performed.
2. ADDITIONAL: **SameSite cookies** - Strict (cookies will be sent to B.com only if the request comes from B.com), Lax (cookies will be sent to B.com from A.com if the request is GET and action is initiated by top-level nagivation like clicking a link.
3. INADEQUATE: **Referrer header** - Contains the absolute or partial address of the page making the request. Can be easily spoofed. Developers implement incorrect checks like `if domain in referrer` which can be bypassed if the attacker domain is `A.com/B`

**CSRF Token implementation**
1. **Synchronised:** Session cookie and csrf token mapping is stored on server side. Server sends the sessionid as cookie and csrf token as JSON/HTML resposonse. This csrf token is sent by the client in every request along wit the session cookie. The server checks if the received csrf token is the same as the stored csrf token for a given session cookie.
2. **Double Submit:** Session cookie is not stored by the server. Only the csrf token is stored on the server side. The csrf token is encrypted using a key that is known only to the server. Session cookie is part of the plaintext. That is, `csrf_token = K(session_cookie + salt)`. Along with the session cookie, the server sends the client the csrf token as a cookie (should not be HttpOnly). The client sends the csrf cookie and the session cookie along with every request. The server decrypts the received csrf token to see if the received session cookie is in the plain text.

**How to test?**
1. Remove the token from the request 
2. Replace with random value - same length, same constraints (alph only, numeric only)
3. Reuse old CSRF token / reuse another user's CSRF token
4. Double submit: Try header injection. Replace both the header and the hidden value with a random but same value. 


**Resources:**
1. [Rana Khalil](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7bTNMSqCMI0&list=PLuyTk2_mYISKn1UzXAFl_DA3MaEJ9J-yq&index=1)
2. [OWASP](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html)
3. [CSRF Tokens explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lYra5vK6qvc)
4. [Double submit cookie pattern](https://medium.com/@kaviru.mihisara/double-submit-cookie-pattern-820fc97e51f2)
