# JSON Web Token (JWT) Attacks

> JWT performs AUTHORIZATION not AUTHENTICATION.

> JWT tokens are issued _after_ authentication.

**Why JWT? JWT vs Session Tokens**

Session tokens act as a reference id for client/user information. The use of session tokens is not scalable in large scale systems like microservices or load balanced systems because every server cannot store duplicate information.

JWT is not a reference id, rather a tokenized representation of the information (non sensitive). This token is given to the client by the server. The server signs this information to prevent tampering by the client or any ther malicious actor. JWT is scalabale because the server does not store the information, the client sends everything to it. The server only has to verify the integrity of the information using the signature.

* Server sends JWT in the HTTP Authorization header.
* The client stores the JWT in local storage or cookie storage.

**Parts of JWT**

Base64 encoded parts separated by dot (.)

1. **Header:** Type of the token, algorthim used for signature.
2. **Payload:** The information to be sent to the server.
3. **Signature:** The signature calculated using the algorithm specified in the header. `ALG(base64(header) + '.' + base64(payload) + '.' + secret)`

## Testing JWT Security

### 1. Imporper signature validation
1. Accepting empty signature
    - Send JWT token **without a signature** after making modifications to the header/payload
2. Not verifying the signature
    - Send a JWT token **with invalid signature** after making modifications to the header/payload  

### 2. Weak secret key for signatures
Bruteforce the weak secrets (key) - [hashcat](https://github.com/hashcat) , [jwtbrute](https://github.com/jmaxxz/jwtbrute), [jwtcracker](https://github.com/lmammino/jwt-cracker)
```
hashcat -m 16500 <jwt_token> jwt.secrets.list
```

### 3. Inject parameters in the header
> NOTE: According to the JWS specification, only the alg header parameter is mandatory.
- JWK
  - If a server does not use a whitelist of public keys to verify the JWT signature, an **attacker can specify their public key** through the `jwk` parameter
  - The attacker will modify the contents of the header/payload and sign it with their private key. This will make the signature valid.
  - This attack requires modifying the `kid` parameter as well. To do this easily use BurpSuite's JWT editor extension.
- JKU
  - If a server does not use a whitelist of domain from which public keys should be fetched from, an **attacker can specify a URL to the public key** through the `jku` parameter
- KID
  - The JWS specification doesn't define a structure for KID. It is just an arbitrary string.
  - If the JWT is signed using a symmetric algorithm, the attacker can inject a `kid` parameter to a predicatble static value such as `/dev/null` in Linux. This will sign/verify the token with an empty string.

### 4. Algorithm Confusion
- Change RS256 to HS256
  - Obtain the server's public key
  - Change it to a suitable format
  - Modify the JWT payload and set `"alg": "HS256"` (symmetric encryption)
  - Sign the token with server's public key and send it
- Change algorith to None
  - Remove the signature
  - Set the algorithm to these (use Burp Intruder)
  ```
  none
  None
  nOne
  NoNe
  noNe
  NONE
  ```

### 5. Sensitive information exposure
1. Sensitive information leakage in the payload.
2. The `kid` is used to specify the key in the payload. Sometimes the path to the key is leaked in this field.
3. Look for leaked pem keys. Bruteforce of Path traversal for `jwks.json`.
4. JWT does not expire with session on logout - can be resued if leaked.

**Resources**
1. [Vicki Lee Attacks](https://medium.com/swlh/hacking-json-web-tokens-jwts-9122efe91e4a)
2. [Farah Hawa](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4V3GXPViXxQ)
3. [JWT dep dive - what, why, how?(HINDI)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5mUDRQfwXuE)
4. [Generate your jwt signature using a leaked pem key](https://github.com/farah-hawa/Jwt-code/blob/master/jwt.py)
5. [Portswigger JWT](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt)
