# Broken Access Control

**What is access control and how can it be exploited?**

Access control and its abuse are of three types:

1. **Vertical:** restrict access to resources and actions between users of different privileges - admin and employee.
2. **Horizontal:** restrict access to resources and actions between users of same privileges - between employees.
3. **Context dependent:** restrict access to resources and actions based on the functionality flow (state of the application). Prevents the user from performing actions in the wrong order. Eg: add $1 item to the cart -> pay -> go back and add $100 items to the cart such that these items will be shipped without payment.

**What is IDOR?**

Insecure Direct Object Reference (IDOR) is a type of access control vulnerability which involves some form of an identifier. This identifier can be part of the parameter or the body and is user modifiable (i.e. user input is accepted and trusted).

Eg: `/getinvoice/id=123` , trying different ids can reveal other invoices which might include sensitive information like address and payment details.

**Testing requirements**

1. Understand all the available roles.
2. Create 2 users for each role - check between different users of the same role, check between different users of different roles.

**Attack strategy**
1. Forced browsing - login as low user and paste urls of pages available only to the admin.
2. Replacing identifiers.
3. Executing JS functions from the developer console - UI elements might be hidden but the JS will be executable.
4. Use Burp extension [Autorize](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/f9bbac8c4acf4aefa4d7dc92a991af2f).
5. Use Burp match and replace.
6. For the same endpoint try different HTTP methods.

**Resources:**
1. [Rana Khalil](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_jz5qFWhLcg&list=PLuyTk2_mYISId4_l9YET7Gv29cHcNguq-)
