# Business Logic Flaws

**What is it?**

Business logic flaws are flaws in the design and the implementation which cause unforseen behaviour when users pass unexpected values to the target. Impact varies depending on the resulting behaviour.

**Some E-commerce examples**

Credits: Wesley Thijs a.k.a [The XSS Rat](https://www.youtube.com/@TheXSSrat)

1. **Client side calculations of prices in a clothing webshop** - High/Crit. This is core business for the target so any issue related to the core business will automatically be more impactful
2. **When brute forcing usernames, you get a 200 OK status when the username you are trying to brute force exists and a 403 if it does not exist on the login page** - Low. This is rather low unless those usernames really have to be secret, you'd have to brute force the login names and then you have to still guess the correct password. This is more usefull on a pentest job.
3. **Negative amounts of items on a webshop lead to negative prices** - High/Crit. This is core business for the target so any issue related to the core business will automatically be more impactful above all, impact on money directly is very important
4. **If price = integer and amount = integer and total price = interger we can overflow total price when we price * amount** - Critical. This might lead to the target returning us money which is certainly not desireable
5. **Registering with the same username as an existing user takes over the account** - Critical. Account takeovers are always higher on the severity scale
6. **The user manual might tell you that you can't deactivate super admin users, but after trying it you can** - Medium. You have to be a priviledged user to even be allowed into the user management system so this lowers the severity a bit.
7. **Field in the response that's not in the original request but does get processed by the server when you add it** - Nothing/Critical. This really depends on the fields that is being processed here. If you can change your accounttype from "User" to "Admin" This would ofcourse be a big problem.
8. **Importing products with the same name as existing ones overwrites them. Even if the products do not belong to you and you should not be able to overwrite them.** - Medium. You are already in a priviledged position before you can import products, this lowers the severity.
